Welcome back now.
Up until now we saw the break.
Key word that we can use to break out of a loop and you see here that we're able to loop with a for
loop but with a while loop as soon as we break.
We're done.
We've just well broken out of the loop but could we do that in a for loop.
Let's find out yep.
Break.
Keyword works in a for loop as well but there's actually two other things that we can use besides break.
One is called continue and you can see here again blue highlighting if I do continue here and I click
Run.
There you go.
We get our looping again.
But you're thinking why why do we need this like it seems completely useless right.
Well a break.
When we use the break segment it breaks out of the current and closing loop.
So when we used a break statement we broke out of this loop.
Right.
This whole while loop we just exited it and same with the for loop.
We completely exited it however with a continue what we're saying is hey whatever happens when you hit
this line continue onto the top of the enclosing loop.
So the current closing loop What is it.
It's this for loop.
So it's going to go back to the for loop so that if I do something like print here so that we get it
printed twice or you know what let's just move print down here like that and then.
Same here.
We're going to just print out the bottom after continue.
If I click Run nothing gets printed because as soon as it sees continue it's going to say OK I'm going
to go back to the loop and it's going to keep going keep going keep going until well the loop ends so
that we never actually hit line 10 in line for so that becomes really useful and conditional logic as
well.
Finally the third one is called Pass and Pass is but not very useful.
It essentially does nothing if I click run here and again it shows me here line 10 something's wrong.
Well we have to move print up to the top so that while we don't get my list of index of three which
doesn't exist.
So again going back here if I click Run pass doesn't do absolutely anything it just essentially passes
to the next line.
So why is that ever useful.
It's very rare that you'll see pass in your code but pass is a good way to have let's say a placeholder
while you're coding for example you want to loop through the for loop but we don't know what we want
to do yet in the code.
Let's say that here we're still thinking about it.
If I do this and I click Run I get an error here because what Whoa well expected an indented block because
now the for loop or the python interpreters looking for the next.
Like what am I supposed to do with the loop.
I'm trying to loop and there's no code for me.
So you can add a pass here to at least fill something for the for loop to say hey I'm thinking about
it I'm just going to pass it for now just so you have something so you don't bug me and I'll come back
to it.
So if I click Run that still works.
So pass is one of those place holders that we can use so that there is a line of code that does absolutely
nothing that we can still pass through.
Again a very rare thing to see in production code.
But while you're developing some developers like using passed and there you have it break continue and
pass.
I'll see you in the next one.
Bob.